in the last video we learned how to
create a smart contract in solidity in
the end it was kind of boring and didn't
do much so in this video we're gonna add
some of the code and logic necessary to
make our contract a useful part of our
online marketplace in doing so we're
gonna learn about data types and
functions and the role that they play in
contracts so let's get going solidity is
a statically typed language to explain
what that means let's take a look at
some JavaScript in JavaScript it's
perfectly acceptable to declare a
variable like this and then we can
assign the variable to one and so now
foo is a type of integer and then we can
say foo is equal to bar and now foo is a
string but that's not allowed in
solidity in solidity you must declare
the datatype and assign it properly so
to achieve the same thing we would
declare foo as an unsigned integer and
then we could assign foo the value of
one but that's it for foo we can't
change its data type we can also create
a variable called bar and assign it the
data type of string and then we could
assign the value of some text to the
variable var there are three different
types and solidity we have value types
reference types and mappings value types
are the simplest they include billions
integers addresses strings and functions
these are called value types because
they will always be passed by value
meaning that they're always copied when
they're used as a function argument or
an assignments reference types are
considered complex types
these include arrays and Struck's
declaring these datatypes has an
additional annotation the data location
and some of the data types have defaults
but it can be overridden whenever it's
declared the possible values for the
data location are memory or storage
mapping types are used to map a key to a
value one way to think of them is
similar to a hash table that is
initialized with every possible key when
it's created it's not exactly like a
hash table though because the key data
isn't actually stored in the mapping
only its hash can be used to look up a
value one other way they're different
from hash tables is you can't iterate
over them either
as a simple example you can see here
that have created a mapping that map's
an aetherium address to an unsigned
integer and given it the variable name
of balances so mappings are pretty
complex to understand so let's go back
to the basics and then we'll come back
to almost we have a deeper level of
understanding for your reference though
a complete list of the types available
in solidity can be found at solidity
read the docs eye oh we're going to be
using some of the common ones throughout
this video as we build out our functions
our first variable for our smart
contract is going to be a struct a
struct is a data type that allows you to
define new data types think of it as
inception for solidity to define a
struct we use the keyword struct
followed by the name of the struct and
we follow that up with a set of curly
braces the struct we're creating is for
the items that will be available for
purchase in our online marketplace let's
look at the UI to get an idea of what
we're gonna need inside of our struck on
our UI we have the name of the item a
description a price and indicators to
tell us whether it's been shipped and
received not shown on the UI but equally
important to us is the etherium address
of the seller and the buyer and we
should also have an ID for the item so
our struct is gonna have the following a
type of address named seller and an
address type in solidity is a data type
used to store in aetherium address such
as the address of a user or smart
contract on the etherium network we'll
have another address for the buyer an
unsigned integer named item ID that
we'll use to give each product on the
market place a unique ID a string to
store the item name another string for
the description
an unsigned integer to store the price
and I know what you're thinking what if
I want to sell an item for a price that
isn't an integer like 1.5 either but
we're gonna store the price in way it's
the smallest denomination of ether and
one way is 1 times 10 to the 18th of an
ether and since there's nothing smaller
than one way an integer will be just
fine as our data type finally we'll have
billions for sold shipped and received
and now you can see that for a given
variable of type item it actually
contains a combination of data types
that are used to uniquely describe that
item the next variable we have to
declare is an array and we'll use this
array to store all of the items that we
have for sale so it's going to be a
dynamically sized list of items for sale
we're going to define it like this the
item refers to the struct that we
defined previously the square brackets
tell solidity that this is a list or an
array of the data type items next I use
the keyword public and this is going to
allow us to access this variable from
outside the smart contract and then
finally I give the variable its name
items using the lower case plural form
of the variable it stores
so let's switch over to our code editor
and I'll show you how these variables
look inside of our smart contract so
I've got my solidity smart contract open
we've declared our contract inside of
that and then right in between the curly
braces we can add the struct for our
item
followed by the declaration of our items
array functions are the executable units
of code within a contract to create one
we use the keyword function followed by
a name for it a set of parentheses where
we can include any parameters needed
within the function and then our level
of visibility let's talk about
visibility so we understand it and then
I'll cover the parameters by showing you
an example of a parameter in use there
are four different types of visibility
for functions and state variables we
have external and an external function
is part of the contract interface and it
can be called from other contracts via
transactions public functions are also
part of the contract interface and they
can be called just like external
functions but public functions can also
be called from another function within
the same contract whereas an external
function cannot internal functions can
only be accessed from within the
contract and the contracts derived from
it and finally private functions can
only be accessed from within the
contract and they cannot be accessed
from the contracts that are derived from
it so one really important thing to
remember here is that even though
internal and private functions can't be
called externally as you saw in the
crypto kitties example in the previous
video it's still visible on the
blockchain
finally I want to introduce the returned
to you this specifies that the function
is going to return something to you when
you call it for example the function
specified here says that it will return
a string and sure enough here's the
return statement at the end of the
function returning the string foo ok so
that's the basics of functions now let's
see how they really work whenever we
implement them as part of our solidity
function over in our smart contract so
the first function we want to add is one
to add item that's going to allow us to
add a new product for sale in the online
marketplace so we'll name our function
add item and then remember those
parameters I told you about here you get
to see them in action this function
accepts parameters for the name
description and price of the item being
sold its visibility is public and then
it's going to return an unsigned integer
remember that items is our array of
items that are available for sale so
we're grabbing that and then calling the
push method on it and then we're pushing
a new item on to it and this item right
here refers to our struct defined up
above so we need to set those properties
we set our item ID which we get by
grabbing the length of the items and
adding 1 to it we're setting our seller
and so message is a constant that's
available inside your solidity contracts
and the dot sender property of that is
the etherium address of the person who
called the contract in our case that's
our seller
we don't have a buyer yet because it's a
brand new item so we're just setting our
address to zero then we'll set the name
description and price that we received
as parameters in our function call and
since it's a brand new item we're
setting sold shipped and received equal
defaults and then finally we're
returning that ID that we set for the
item ID
the next function I want to build is one
to allow us to retrieve a specific item
from the inventory or from the list of
items so this function receives an
unsigned integer that we named item ID
and that's how we know which item to
retrieve from the array or from the list
again it's public and now we've got a
new keyword here view and view when you
define your function as view you're
making a promise that you're only going
to read data you're not going to attempt
to modify anything
and look at this return that we're doing
here we're returning an unsigned integer
a string a string and unsigned integer
and then 3 billions which happens to
match to the data format of our struct
so we're going to return our struct but
we're going to return it as a tuple and
so that's exactly what we're doing here
in our return statement
you can see we're just grabbing each one
of the items from our item that we
retrieved out of the list and that's the
data that will return for our get item
okay so the next function is going to be
one to allow our buyer to buy an item
again it receives an unsigned integer
that we're calling our item ID to tell
us which item were referring to we've
got it public so it's externally
callable and now another new keyword
called payable this allows this function
to receive funds whenever it's called
this is how the buyer is gonna pay for
their purchase we've got the function
marked as payable so it's capable of
receiving funds and then we're gonna
attach those funds from the users wallet
whenever they try to call this function
so now we need to set the address for
the person who bought this item using
our message constant again and again
grabbing the dot sender property of that
but this time we're setting it as the
buyer whenever we created the new item
we set that as the seller and now
presumably this is a different person
who's going to be calling this function
because they want to buy the item so
we'll record that address here and then
we'll set the sold property equal to
true the next two I'm going to show you
at the same time because they're
identical
we've got ship item and receive item
both of them receive the ID of the item
that's being referenced both of them are
public and then they each set different
properties one set shipped equal to true
the other set received equal to true
and in the last function I'm going to
show you is the one that allows our
seller to retrieve their funds or their
ether after the products been sold so
we've got a function called claim funds
again passing in the item ID it's a
public function and then we've got our
message sender so that's the person
calling the contract and then we're
calling the dot transfer method and
we're gonna transfer however much this
items sold for back to the person who
called this message and there you have
it we've implemented some basic
variables and functions within our smart
contract in doing so we learned how to
create and use some of the common data
types and solidity and we saw how to
create functions to implement the
business logic of our online marketplace
our contract isn't complete though for
example what happens if someone tries to
buy an item and pay less than the item
price for it or what if someone tries to
withdraw the ether receive for selling
an item but they haven't shipped it yet
we can enforce those concepts with
function modifiers and if you stick
around for the next video you'll see
exactly how to do that so I'll see you
there